Backups are crucial to ensure the safety of your data as, by default, your Vault data is only stored on this device. 
If this device is lost, damaged, or stolen, your data will be **irretrievably lost**.

Creating a backup will allow you to restore all your data to a new device and give you peace of mind.
I can't stress enough how important it is that you make regular backups.

## Where is my data stored?

Any items you create in Vault are stored locally on your device and nowhere else by default.
**They will not be sent anywhere automatically**, including to your other devices.
Data is not sent to any server or stored in any cloud service, so it is your responsibility to keep your data safe.

If you choose to, you can create backups and store them wherever you like to ensure that your data is safe.
You can create as many backups as you like.

To protect yourself from data loss, you should try to keep at least one paper copy of your data off-site.
This method ensures that you have a tangible copy of your data that is immune to digital threats & disasters, such as losing access to _all_ your online accounts and your house burning down.

## What does a backup look like?

A backup generated by Vault is a PDF file that contains an encrypted (protected with a password) version of your entire vault.
This can be saved to a safe place like your iCloud drive–or you can print this off to create a physical paper copy.

You should try to keep any backups safe, but it's not the end of the world if this falls into the wrong hands.
All backups created by Vault are required to be encrypted, meaning someone cannot retrieve the data from your backup without knowing the password used to encrypt the backup.

